it's important to keep your computer
clean not only because it looks nice but
also because things like dust and dirt
can affect your computer's performance
but there's a right way and the wrong
way to do it
here's the right way to clean your
computer case monitor mouse and keyboard
first always turn off or unplug the item
before you clean it just to be safe if
it has a ps/2 connector like this make
sure the computer is shut down both when
you unplug the cable and when you plug
it back in to clean your keyboard turn
it upside down and gently shake it to
remove any dust dirt or crumbs it's not
uncommon for stuff to get stuck inside
which can affect the way your keyboard
works you can also use a can of
compressed air to really get between the
keys to clean the surface use a cotton
cloth or paper towel that's moistened
with rubbing alcohol never actually pour
alcohol or any other liquid on your
keyboard if you spill something by
accident don't panic
shut your computer down immediately then
disconnect the keyboard and turn it
upside down so the liquid can drain if
the liquid is sticky you can rinse your
keyboard under running water just like
this turn to the side then let it drain
upside down for two days before
reconnecting it it may not be repairable
at this point but it's worth a try
the best way to avoid this is to keep
drinks away from the computer area all
together next take a look at your mouse
if you have an optical mouse good news
these don't require much cleaning at all
because they don't have any moving parts
just keep an eye on the lighting knitter
underneath if something gets stuck here
even a piece of dust it can keep your
mouse from working smoothly to clean a
mechanical mouse again make sure it's
unplugged
then remove the tracking ball by turning
the ring counterclockwise it should pop
right out
use a cotton cloth or paper towel to
wipe it with a little rubbing alcohol
you can wipe the inside of the mouse to
make sure all the parts are dry before
you put them back together here's an
easy tip you can give your mouse a quick
cleaning by rubbing it back and forth on
a clean white sheet of paper sometimes
this is enough to remove the dust and
dirt that can get stuck underneath your
monitor is going to be even easier to
clean but there are a few things to keep
in mind never spray the screen directly
with water cleaner or any other kind of
liquid it can leak into the monitor and
damage the components inside never use
glass cleaner like Windex this can
damage your screen if it has an
anti-glare coating the safest method is
to unplug the monitor then wipe it with
a soft cloth moistened with water
you should also give some thought to
cleaning other parts of your workspace
like the back of your monitor and your
computer case these areas can get pretty
dusty if you're not careful a lint-free
cloth sometimes called a microfiber
cloth is great for wiping the casings if
you see a lot of buildup in the
ventilation pans you can use a can of
compressed air to clean them out never
use furniture cleaner or strong solvents
on any of these surfaces instead take
your cloth or even a paper towel and
spray it with glass cleaner now wipe the
case and monitor housing but not the
monitor screen in a downward motion you
can make your own solution using ammonia
diluted with water the milder the better
one more thing you can do to make sure
your computer stays physically healthy
is to watch the airflow around the case
that means no books no stacks of paper
nothing that might block the fans in the
back which are designed to keep your
computer from overheating in fact if you
have a desk with a compartment for the
case you may want to position the case a
little towards the front or leave the
compartment open if it has a door both
of these steps will help your computer's
stay cool looks good to me
just remember to clean your equipment
regularly the right way and your
computer is sure to stay healthy for
years to come
you